README.md, before:

# Welcome to the Shutter Project!

The **Shutter Project** is an open-source development of a low-cost, general purpose shutter system based on ubiquitous actuators (servo motors or solenoids) that are connected to an Arduino-based controller. Several shutters can be controlled by one controller, reducing system cost. The state of the shutters can be controlled via a display built into the controller, by serial commands via USB, or by electrical control lines. The use of a microcontroller makes the shutter controller adaptable – only control options that are used need to be included, and the design accommodates a selection of display and actuator options. We provide designs for all required components, including 3D print files for the actuator holders and cases, software for the Arduino, libraries for serial communication (C and python), and example graphical user interfaces for testing. 

*Reference:*  Mathias S. Fischer and Martin C. Fischer. Cost-effective, open-source light shutters with Arduino control. [HardwareX 19, e00548 (2024)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ohx.2024.e00548)

## Contributing
I welcome your contributions with [pull-requests](https://github.com/MCFLab/Shutter/pulls) and [issues suggesting further improvement](https://github.com/MCFLab/Shutter/issues)!

## License
This work is licensed under the
[CERN Open Hardware Licence Version 2 - Weakly Reciprocal License](https://cern-ohl.web.cern.ch/).

Commit message:

Adding rotary solenoids to the list of actuators

README.md, after:

# Welcome to the Shutter Project!

The **Shutter Project** is an open-source development of a low-cost, general purpose shutter system based on ubiquitous actuators (servo motors or solenoids) that are connected to an Arduino-based controller. Several shutters can be controlled by one controller, reducing system cost. The state of the shutters can be controlled via a display built into the controller, by serial commands via USB, or by electrical control lines. The use of a microcontroller makes the shutter controller adaptable – only control options that are used need to be included, and the design accommodates a selection of display and actuator options. We provide designs for all required components, including 3D print files for the actuator holders and cases, software for the Arduino, libraries for serial communication (C and python), and example graphical user interfaces for testing. 

*Reference:*  Mathias S. Fischer and Martin C. Fischer. Cost-effective, open-source light shutters with Arduino control. [HardwareX 19, e00548 (2024)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ohx.2024.e00548)


## Rotary Solenoids
Since publication of the HardwareX paper, we have also tested the controller with rotary solenoids, which perform quite a bit better then servos. We added a document in the Docs folder describing the operation with rotary solenoids in a bit more detail. Also, for questions and discussion refer to the [this topic](https://forum.microlist.org/t/cost-effective-open-source-light-shutters-with-arduino-control/) in the [Builders/Tools Category](https://forum.microlist.org/c/builders-tools/21) of the [µForum](https://forum.microlist.org/).

## Contributing
I welcome your contributions with [pull-requests](https://github.com/MCFLab/Shutter/pulls) and [issues suggesting further improvement](https://github.com/MCFLab/Shutter/issues)!

## License
This work is licensed under the
[CERN Open Hardware Licence Version 2 - Weakly Reciprocal License](https://cern-ohl.web.cern.ch/).
